# Hierarchical and mixed-effect models in R

This course is a 3.5 hour introduction to hierarchical and mixed-effect models using R.

# Prerequisites 

## Knowledge

This course assumes you have familiarity with the following topics:

- Linear models and generalized linear models in R;
- ggplot2;
- Tidyverse packages for data manipulation (not an explicit requirement, but functions as used as needed)
  
## Software

This course requires the following software:

- A web browser to follow along with html presentation 
- R if you want to follow along with the code
- The lme4 package
- The Tidyverse core packages including the ggplot2 package

# Folders and files

- `README.md` is this file. 
- `Erickson-Hierarchical_models.Rpres` is the R Presentation source file
- `Erickson-Hierarchical_models.html` is the R Presentation htlm file
- `Erickson-Hierarchical_models.md` is the R Presentation markdown file
- `LICENSE` is the standard USGS license file
- `images` are the images used in the R Presentation 
- `css` contains the CSS file
  - `style.css` is the style file
- `/Erickson-Hierarchial_models-figure/` is generated by R Presentation
- `Data` contains data files for the course. 
  - `larval_density_RAW_Data.csv` was downloaded from [Sciencebase](https://www.sciencebase.gov/catalog/item/59b6cc06e4b08b1644ddf8b3).
  
# Contact

Richard Erickson. rerickson@usgs.gov

# Disclaimer

This software is in the public domain because it contains materials that originally came from the U.S. Geological Survey, an agency of the United States Department of Interior. For more information, see the [official USGS copyright policy](https://www2.usgs.gov/visual-id/credit_usgs.html#copyright/).


This software is preliminary or provisional and is subject to revision. It is being provided to meet the need for timely best science. The software has not received final approval by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). No warranty, expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the U.S. Government as to the functionality of the software and related material nor shall the fact of release constitute any such warranty. The software is provided on the condition that neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government shall be held liable for any damages resulting from the authorized or unauthorized use of the software.

This software is provided "AS IS".
